README - RUNewTerritory project documentation.
	10/16/21.	wmk.

Modification History.
---------------------
8/11/21.	wmk.	original document.
9/10/21.	wmk.	Significant Notes section added.
9/16/21.	wmk.	WARNING added about running SCNewTerritory first.
10/16/21.	wmk.	Project Desciption creating empty Terrxxx_RU.db.


Document Sections.
------------------
Project Description - general description of project.
Setup - steps to perform to build the project.
Raw Data Structure - data structure of RU territory database.
Significant Notes - important notes about project.


Project Description.
--------------------
RUNewTerritory takes download data from the RefUSA records and creates a
database with the download records and Bridge table for territory generation.
The download records are assumed to be "map" download records from a
RefUSA database in polygon record format.

RUNewTerritory may be run on an empty Terrxxx_RU.csv. This is done where
either there is no RU download data available for the territory, or where
the RU data is obtained using Special territory processing.


Setup.
------
Perform the following steps from within the RUNewTerritory project:

	Terryyy_RU.csv should have been downloaded with the territory RU raw data

	WARNING: do the SCNewTerritory project first, since this project
	 depends upon the Terrxxx_SCBridge table when running InitialRUFix!

	edit the "sed" Build menu item with the territory ID of the new territory
	run the "sed" Build menu item
	
	run the "Make Dry Run" Build menu item to check for desired results
	
	run the "Make" Build menu item to generate the territory database
	

Raw Data Structure.
-------------------
Following is the table structure of the map polygon data. In the first
pass at generating territories, the "by shape" feature was used to draw
polygons on the RefUSA street map to obtain the addresses. The resulting
.csv download records all have the following SQL fields present:

CREATE TABLE Terrxxx_RURaw 
("Last Name" TEXT,"First Name" TEXT, "House Number" TEXT, 
"Pre-directional" TEXT,"Street" TEXT, "Street Suffix" TEXT, 
"Post-directional" TEXT,"Apartment Number" TEXT, "City" TEXT,
"State" TEXT,"ZIP Code" TEXT, "County Name" TEXT, "Phone Number" TEXT)

As can be seen from the table definition, the .csv fields are imported
directly into table Terrxxx_RURaw where xxx is the territory ID.

A provision has been made to take download data from RefUSA using entire
streets instead of polygons. This provision covers cases where entire
streets are necessary to have in a database, where the street spans two
or more territories. The SpecialRUdb project handles these databases.
Where a territory makes use of this provision, its raw data will contain
documentation in file SPECIAL, and a secondary database Specxxx_RU.db of
Special records in Bridge format for inclusion in the generated territory.
(See the SpecialRUdb project documentation README for further information.)


Significant Notes.
------------------
SCNewTerritory should be run to build the SC territory prior to building
the RUNewTerritory. RUNewTerritory depends upon the Terrxxx_SC.db, even
if there are no records (e.g. mobile home park).

If this territory is a mobile home park (MHP), the SpecialRUdb project
needs to be run to set up the special processing that will be used 
whenever the MHP download data is updated.
