README - Documentation for UpdateRUDwnld project.
	1/13/22.	wmk.

Modification History.
---------------------
6/2/21.		wmk.	original documentation.
6/6/21.		wmk.	CAUTION added when using in multihost environment.
7/16/21.	wmk.	*Prerequisites* section added.
8/16/21.	wmk.	documentation review.
8/29/21.	wmk.	AnySQLtoSQ usage documented.
8/30/21.	wmk.	InitialRUFix integration documented.
9/4/21.		wmk.	ExtractOldDiffs and IntegrateOldDiffs processes documented.
9/11/21.	wmk.	*Setup* section updated.
12/5/21.	wmk.	DiffQueries.sql documented in *Significant Notes*.
1/13/22.	wmk.	multihost CAUTION removed.

Documentation Sections.
-----------------------
Project Description - general description of project.
Setup - step-by-step set up for updating an RU territory.
Dependencies - makefile dependencies.
Prerequisites - target prerequisites for the build.
Build variables - 'make' variables used in the build.
Build Results - results of the build (primary target and others).
Significant Notes - important stuff not in other sections.

	
Project Description.
--------------------
UpdateRUDwnld takes a RefUSA download map .csv and moves it through several
processes generating a completely fresh territory RU database. The map
.csv file will typically be the latest polygon download for a given
territory. Since no algorithm has been developed to update the existing
territory RU data from the latest download, the territory RU database is
completely rebuilt from the latest download.

The Build menu has 2 relevant Independent commands: *sed* and *Make*.

sed runs DoSed.sh to edit territory-specific paths and directives prior
to running Make. Using the Build menu item Set Build Commands, the 
territory ID is set as the passed parameter to DoSed.

Make runs the *make* utility to build the territory RU database. Once
the sed menu item has been run, Make can subsequently be run to update
the RU database for the territory.

Setup.
------
** Prior to running the UpdateRUDwnld build, remove the file
  RefUSA-Downloads/Terrxxx/FixxxxRU.sh or rebuild it with the
  FixAnyRU project **
  This necessary since all of the older FixxxxRU.sh shells go into an
  infinite loop.
  It is also advisable to run UpdateSCBridge first, since FixyyyRU.sql
  may be using the SCBridge data.
** Prior to running UpdateRUDwnld, you may wish to ensure the current
  Terrxxx_RU.db has been preserved on /Previous by running
  /Procs-Dev/CyclePrevious RU.

To run the UpdateRUDwnld on a single territory perform the following steps:

	edit "sed" item in Build menu with territory ID
	run "sed" item from Build menu
	
	run "Make dry-run" from Build menu to pretest the make; note that
	 with the current "include" dependencies, make may report that the
	 .db is up-to-date when it actually is not
	
	run "Make" from the Build menu to generate the updated Terrxxx_RU.db
	 Note: this now includes the generation of InitialRUFix.sh if necessary
	 and the running of this shell once the .db is generated.

If there may have been properties that were in the prior .db cycle, but
not in the current .db, the old entries can be picked up with the following:

	run ExtractOldDiffs.sh to extract the older/missing entries
	use an editor to check /Terrxxx/TerrxxxOldDiffs.csv to see if you 
	 actually want to integrate the old entries (some may have been corrected)
	
	run IntegrateOldDiffs.sh to integrate the older entries with the new
	 .db records. The older entries will be recorded with "?" as the resident.
	 
	 Note. There are separate makefiles in the UpdateRUDwnld project for
	 ExtractOldDiffs.sh and IntegrateOldDiffs.sh builds just to be consistent,
	 but both .sh shells use sqlite directly on their .sql files.

	
Dependencies.
-------------
This section documents the primary dependencies in the makefile. There
may also be secondary dependencies for prerequisites listed in these
primary dependencies.

The following shells are used by UpdateRUDwnld:

	RUNewTerr_db.sh - generate new Terryyy_RU.db from Mapyyy_RU.csv
	RUTidyTerr_db.sh - complete missing fields in new Terryyy_RU.db
	FixyyyRU.sh - add and cleanup special case records for Terryyy_RU.db
	SetRUDNCs.sh - set DoNotCall fields in Terryyy_RU.DB/Terryyy_RUBridges
	MissingIDs.sh - create MissingIDs.csv summary of records missing OwningParcel


The following databases are used by UpdateRUDwnld:

~/DB-Dev databases
	VeniceNTerritory.db	 -  master db of SC records for all properties
		within the bounds of North Venice congregation territory
	AuxSCPAData.db		 -	auxiliary tables for processing territory
							records, AddrXcpt, SitusDups (and others)
	TerrIDData.db		 -	data specific to each territory, like
							table Territory (territory definitions) and
							DoNotCalls (do not call list)

~/RawData/RefUSA/RefUSA-Downloads/Teryyy databases
	Terryyy_RU.db		 -  (rebuilt) RefUSA records for territory yyy


~/RawData/RefUSA/RefUSA-Downloads/Special databases
	<supplemental>		 -	supplemental RU download data, like entire
						    streets for use in cases where different
							territories use only certain addresses from
							a given street;
							taken from RefUSA-Downloads/Special folder

The following include files are used by UpadateRUDwnld:

~/include
	pathRUdefs.i - generic RU path definitions

~/<project>
	pathRUdefs.inc - pathRUdefs.i stream edited by Build/DoSed.sh to match
	  territory ID


The following SQL files are used by UpdateRUDwnld


~/<project>
	UpdateRUDwnld.sql (obsolete) - was used by OldMakeFile.tmp

InitSpecial.sh - shell file provided to assist with initial setup of 
  Special database processing for RU territories; copies essential
  file templates to territory RU download folder.

Prerequisites.
--------------
(adapted for RU from SC special preprocessing...)
SpecyyyRU.sh is the optional preprocessing shell for Territory yyy.
SpecyyyRU.sql is the sql query that is the basis for the shell. SpecyyyRU.sh
will be considered out-of-date if SpecyyyRU.sql is newer. If there is
no preprocessing .sql, an empty SpecyyyRU.sh will be generated to avoid
an error in the makefile. The primary function of the SpecyyyRU.sql is
to ensure that all the relevant addresses for the territory are present
in the Bridge records before the update from the download occurs.

In several territories, the RefUSA map polygon data either misses addresses
or is too cumbersome to accurately get all the addresses in the territory.
The folder Special in the RefUSA-Downloads directory contains .dbs built
from street-oriented RefUSA downloads. A given street download may contain
many addresses outside of the territory, so it is up to the preprocessing
query to extract only the relevant addresses.

The file SPECIAL within a RefUSA territory download's raw data is used to
document the dependencies the territory has on .dbs within the
RefUSA-Downloads/Special folder. It will be considered to be of high
importance, like the README file, documenting quirks of the territory.


Build variables.
----------------

whichsystem - set to "home" or "Kays" to steer folders (see folderbase).

folderbase - base path of Territories subsystem; set dependent upon
	'whichsystem' var

bashpath - path to shell files; set in pathRUdefs.inc

postpath - path to postprocessor for territory; set in pathRUdefs.inc

RUQBpath - path to RefUSA .sql queries; set in pathRUdefs.inc


Build Results.
--------------
If the Terryyy_RU.csv file or the Specxxx_RU.csv is newer than Terryyy_RU.db,
Terryyy_RU.db will be rebuilt using the records in Terryyy_RU.csv. 'vpath;'
directives in pathRUdefs.inc file set the paths for both the .csv and .db files.

WARNING: It is imperative that the build process preserve the existing
Terryyy_RU.db in the ./Previous folder for the territory. This will
prevent problems if an individual territory is updated with UpdateRUDwnld,
then later updated with UpdateMHPDwnld as a MHP territory. This is because
UpdateRUDwnld does not depend upon the table Terrxxx_MHP, so it does not
implicitly restore it if it was in the prior territory db. Perhaps future
code could check for it in the ./Previous file and restore it after
rebuilding the .db.

pathRUdefs.inc will be considered out-of-date and rebuilt if pathRUdefs.i
is newer. (See Dependencies).

RUTidyTerr_db.sh will be considered out-of-date and rebuilt if
 $(RUQBPath)RUTidyTerr_db.sql is newer.

File ~/RefUSA/RefUSA-Downloads/Terryyy/MissingIDs.csv is written as
the last step, which contains records from the download for which there
are no matching property IDs in the Bridge table. For a review of all
territories for which this is a non-empty file, run the following
commands from the ./RefUSA-Downloads directory:
	ls -lh ./Terr*/MissingIDs.csv > MissingIDs.txt
	awk -F' ' '{ if ($5 != "0") print $5 "   " $9 }' MissingIDs.txt > MissingIDList.txt


Significant Notes.
------------------

Two new post-download shells have been added that bring forward any UnitAddress'es
that were in the previous databae, but not in the current database. A comparison
is done searching for UnitAddress fields that are in /Previous/Terrxxx_RU.db, but
not present in Terrxxx_RU.db.

ExtractOldDiffs.sh is the shell that summarizes the found Previous UnitAddress'es
and stores them in RU/Terrxxx/TerrxxxOldDefs.csv.

	run make MakeExtractOldDiffs to build the ExtractOldDiffs.sh shell
	run ExtractOldDiffs.sh from the UpdateRUDwnld project folder 

IntegrateOldDiffs.sh is the shell that integrates the older definitions with the
current database, replacing the "Resident1" name with "?". When the publisher territory
is produced the records with "?" as the resident will indicate that the address
is valid, but the latest download from RefUSA did not have any data for that address.

	run make MakeIntegrateOldDiffs to build the IntegrateOldDiffs.sh shell
	run IntegrateOldDiffs.sh xxx (xxx is the territory ID) to integrate the old
	  addresses with the current Terrxxx_RU.db

---
Mobile Home Parks (MHP) that do not have individual lot ownership all
have only one SC property ID for the entire park. Examples are Bay Indies,
Ridgewood, Bay Lake Estates. Currently all territories within these parks
have individual RefUSA map polygons that download only the streets
within the territory boundaries.

The implication is that in order to update the territories within a given
MHP, the individual territory polygons need to be downloaded. For Bay
Indies, there are about 20 territory polygons.

A less time consuming method is to download the entire
MHP as one RefUSA query, then generate a SPECIAL database with all
of the park entries within it. Then a batch update of all the MHP
territories can be done, keeping all the territories within the MHP
in synch with a given download date. Like SCPA downloads, the MHP
downloads could be named with the date-stamp of the download to facilitate
an UpdateMHPDwnld project that would bring any given Mapxxx_RU.csv file
up-to-date with the download specified. The shell AllUpdtMHPDwnld.sh
uses the TIDList.txt file in the UpdateMHPDwnld project to bring
all the territories'Terrxxx_RU.db files up-to-date with the download
date specified.
---

Notes. ExtractOldDiffs looks for records in
./Previous/Terrxxx_RU.db.Terrxxx_RUBridge where the UnitAddress is
not in the current Terrxxx_RU.db and extracts them to a .csv
TerrxxxOldDiffs.csv. This .csv may then be imported into the current
Terrxxx_RUBridge with the Resident1 fields cleared to "?", indicating
that the address belongs in the Terrxxx_RUBridge table, but was not
picked up with the latest RU download.

AllExtractOldDiffs uses TIDList.txt and runs ExtractOldDiffs on all
territories whose territory ID is in the list file.

IntegrateOldDiffs integrates the TerrxxxOldDiffs.csv Bridge records
back into the current Terrxxx_RUBridge table, leaving the RecordDate
intact from the old record, but changing the Resident1 field to "?"
indicating that the address is valid, but there was no RefUSA record
for it with the latest download. (Note: if the DoNotCall status changed,
it will not be picked up here.)

A new file suffix, .psq, has been introduced with this project. This
suffix is used for SQL queries that need to be modified by sed to
put them in correct context. The resultant will be a .sql suffix
SQL query that is ready to be run in SQL (typically sqlite3 batch run).
ExtrarctOldDiffs.psq and IntegrateOldDiffs.psq are files that fall
into this category.

---
DiffQueries.sql has been added that contains 3 queries useful in prioritizing
which territories need to have their RU data updated with RU downloads.
Since UpdateRUDwnld can do batch updates, these 3 queries can prepare
TIDList files that are the lists for batch updates, as well as the lists
of files needing RU download updates.

For example, TIDoldest12-02.txt is the list of territory IDs that were
in the 11-02 differences, but not in the 12-02 differences. These should
have the highest priority for download, since they are the most out-of-date.

TIDcommon12-02.txt is the list of territory IDs that are in both the 11-02
differences and the 12-02 differences. These should be the next highest
priority for download, especially those from 11-02 that have not been
downloaded since the 11-02 SCPA download.

TIDnewsts12-02.txt is the list of territory IDs that are in the 12-02
differences, but not in the 11-02 differences. These are the lowest priority
for RU download, since they are the least out-of-date.

Probably the safest way to deterimine additional RU download priority
is to take any give list, and look at the generation date of the territory,
and the Mapxxx_RU.csv date. For letter-writing territories ?? 
If the Tracking/SystemTracker.ods is up-to-date, that can be used to
prioritize lists.. last sheet *Territory Master Map_Sorting*.


