README - ReleaseData project documentation.
	1/1/22.	wmk.

Modification History.
---------------------
10/28/21.	wmk.	original document.
10/29.21.	wmk.	Super Territories segment added to File Contents.
10/30/21.	wmk.	documentation of README and RELEASE_NOTES files.
11/16/21.	wmk.	file description improvements.
11/17/21.	wmk.	Macro Library section added.
1/1/22.		wmk.	SEE README.html in File app.


Document Sections.
------------------
Project Description - overall project description.
Build Results - targets built by the project Build procedures.
Setup - step-by-step instructions for the project build.
File Contents - full description of the release territory files.
Macro Library - custom keyboard and macro library release information

Project Description.
--------------------
ReleaseData assembles a collection of TerrrData tarballs in manageable
groups of files. Manageable implies meeting two criteria: 1) sized to
facilitate being attached to emails without exceeding attachment size
limits, 2) compressed and grouped for easy extraction on the host
computer receiving the released files.

The data files assembled by ReleaseData are limited to the actual
.xlsx and .pdf publisher territory files. None of the build files or
processes that created the publisher territories are included. Along
with the actual publisher territory files, an auxliary file named
BuildDates.xlsx is released. This file is an Excel spreadsheet containing
the territory numbers, the date each territory was generated, and the
build file names (e.g. Terr150 2021-10-28 Terr150_PubTerr.xlsx).

For each territory three files are included in the release. The files are
Terrxxx_PubTerr.xlsx, Terrxxx_SuperTerr.xlsx, and Terrxxx_PubTerr.pdf
where xxx is the territory number. The files with the .xlsx name extension
are Excel spreadsheets, the file with the .pdf name extension is a printable
PDF file.

A fourth file may be included with any given territory. If present,
PUB\_NOTES\_xxx contains notes for territory xxx that the publisher
should be aware of, and will be included in the release.

The tarball collection will be assembled in the Territories folder
/ReleaseData. This folder will be organized with subfolders that follow
the naming convention 'Release_mm-dd-yy' where mm-dd-yy are the month,
day and year the release was built.

MakeReleaseData.tmp is the template makefile for the build. The integrator
will be required to preset the year in the makefile, using the var
'relyear'. All other makefile requirements will be met by the DoSed
build process parameters.

Build Results.
--------------
Following are the results of the ReleaseData build process:

	Folder Territories/ReleaseData/Release_mm-dd-yy created if nonexistent
	
	in the above folder, the following files are created:
	
		Terr100-199.tar - dump of publisher territories 100-199
		Terr200-249.tar - dump of publisher territories 200-249
		Terr250-299.tar - dump of publisher territories 250-299
		Terr300-399.tar - dump of publisher territories 300-399
		Terr600-699.tar - dump of publisher territories 600-699.
		
	In addition the above .tar files, the following files are included
	in the release:
	
		BuildDates.xlsx  - spreadsheet itemizing each territory's build date
		README - ReleaseData project documentation
		RELEASE_NOTES - release-specific notes

Setup.
------
Following is the build procedure for the ReleaseData project:

Projects-Geany/BuildDates should be run to ensure BuildDates.xlsx is
 up-to-date
 
ReleaseData Build menu:

	edit 'sed' command line with month and day of the data release
	run 'sed' from the Build menu
	[run 'Make Dry-run' from the Build menu to verify parameters set
	 correcty]
	run 'Make' from the Build menu to transfer all of the release data
	 to the ReleaseData/ folder in territories

Extraction on target client system:

	ensure a directory structure exists that will be obvious as to its
	 content of territory files (a good one is any that has 'Territories'
	 as its lowest level folder
	
	download the tarball files for the ReleaseData into the 'Territories'
	 folder for extraction (or alternatively into a 'Downloads' folder)
	
	use an extraction utility that can handle .tar file formats and, if 
	 necessary specify parameter(s) that will retain directory structure
	 when the files are extracted
	
	the territory data will now be stored in subdirectories Terrxxx for
	 each territory xxx. Each territory will have 3 files:
	   Terrxxx_PubTerr.xlsx - publisher territory (Excel)
	   Terrxxx_SuperTerr.xlsx - super territory (Excel)
	   Terrxxx.PubTerr.pdf - publisher territory (PDF)


File Contents.
--------------
The target files build by MakeRelease are: 

Three file types make up the publisher files for any given territory. They
will be named Terrxxx_PubTerr.xlsx, Terrxxx_SuperTerr.xlsx, and
Terrxxx_PubTerr.xlsx where 'xxx' is the territory number.

Terrxxx_PubTerr.xlsx and Terrxxx_PubTerr.pdf contain the following information:

	Both files contain all the addresses, names, and phone numbers from 2 sources,
	Sarasota County Property Search, and RefUSA address search.
	
	The files are formatted as follows:
	

	5 lines of header information with basic information about the territory,
	 and the date the publisher territory was generated. Included in this
	 infomation is the city and zip code of the addresses. (See Letter-writing
	 Territories below for exceptions).
	
	line 6 through whatever contain the territory addresses and names with
	the following column headings:
	UnitAddress, Unit, H, Name(s), Phone1, RefUSA, DNC, FL, Personal Notes
	
	The files are tagged as "landscape format" with "grid", so if printed
	 as much information as possible will fit on the page. On most systems
	 the "Personal Notes" column ends up on its own page.
	 
	UnitAddress - the street address
	Unit - for multiple-dwelling buildings, or apartments, the unit #
	H - a '*' in this column indicates "homestead"; that is, the owner
	 is claiming homestead exemption with the county, so considers this
	 their permanent address
	Name(s) - name or names of residents; only county records will have
	 multiple names in one record (see "Name Grouping" below)
	 if this is a DoNotCall 'DO NOT CALL' will appear in the Name(s) column
	Phone1 - left empty if the publisher wishes to add a phone # found
	 via one of the people search engines
	RefUSA - the phone number listed with RefUSA for this address; if there
	 is no phone number in RefUSA it will read "Not Available"
	DNC - if set to '1' this is a DoNotCall
	FL - if set to '1' this is a Foreign-Language DoNotCall

If the record information came from the Sarasota County Property search,
the record text will be in all uppercase (e.g. 800 THE ESPLANADE N).
If the record information came from the RefUSA search, the record text 
will be in mixed case (e.g. 800 The Esplanade N).

Name Grouping.

Resident names are grouped in two ways. If the county data lists multiple
owners, all of the owner names appear in one cell, in uppercase, and separated
with commas (e.g. SMITH JOSEPH, SMITH MARY). If the property is owned by
a trust, often the secondary name(s) will be trustees. If the property is
H='*' homestead, likely one or more RefUSA names will match the trustees.

For RefUSA records, the names are one per record. If multiple residents
are in the RefUSA data for the same address, each resident will have their
own line of data.

If a given address has territory records on more than one line, the first
line of information is the first one encountered for the address. That line
will be highlighted in green. Subsequent lines that belong with the same
address will have the Unit column highlighted in blue. This makes it much
easier to see all the residents for one address. If there is county data
for the address likely (but not always) it will be the first line for the
address, will have data in all uppercase, and highlighted green.


Letter Writing Territories.

Letter/phone territories are numbered in the 600x and are formatted
somewhat differently from other territories. The territory information 
in the header may contain multiple zip codes, since that is the way that
Territory Servant is set up. Territory Servant randomly assigns addresses
from the congregation territory to a letter writing territory. Letter
writing territories have the same column headings as other territories.

The UnitAddress column for letter writing territories includes the zip code.
This is necessary since letter writing territories may cross zip code 
(and city) boundaries. Otherwise, the formatting and highlighting are
the same as for regular territories.


Super Territories.

Super Territories are included with every regular and letter writing
territory. They are always in spreadsheet (Excel) files, and are best
used from a laptop, notebook, or desktop computer since most mobile
devices that can use spreadsheets do not have the full spreadsheet
functionality of following hyperlinks.

All Super Territories have the filename Terrxxx_SuperTerr.xlsx, where
'xxx' is the territory number. The spreadsheet file has two tabs, 
Terrxxx_PubTerr and Terrxxx_Search. The first tab, Terrxxx_PubTerr,
contains identical information to that in the Terrxxx_PubTerr.xlsx
spreadsheet. It is the "standard" publisher territory information.

The second tab, Terrxxx_Search, has the column headers rearranged along
with some additional columns. The columns in this sheet are:
H, Address, Unit, Name, Phone1, RefUSA, fastpeople, truepeople, 411, DNC, FL
The fastpeople, truepeople and 411 columns contain hyperlinks to enable
quick lookup for each address. (See the Hyperlinks segment below).

The following are the individual column descriptions/explanations:

H - "homestead"; if a '*' is present, this address and the associated Name(s)
	are listed as homestead in the Sarasota County Property records. This 
	implies that this address is the permanent address of the Name(s), so
	the named person(s) should receive mail at that address year-round.

Address - the street address of the location.

Unit - for addresses with units (condos, apartments, duplexes, etc) this
	is the unit #

Name - the name(s) of the residents; if uppercase (e.g. DOE JOHN) it is
	the name(s) from the SCPA county data; if mixed case (e.g. John Doe)
	it is the name from the RefUSA data. Note that names in the county
	are usually lastname first, from RefUSA are firstname first.

Phone1 - left blank; may be filled in by using hyperlink data. (See the 
	Hyperlinks segment below).
	
RefUSA - contains either the RefUSA listed phone number or "Not Available"

fastpeople - contains a hyperlink for searching www.fastpeoplesearch.com
	for this address; If you are using Excel, clicking on this cell will
	transfer you into your web browser to the 411.com website, with the
	address pre-loaded for you. (Some other spreadsheet packages like
	OpenOffice/Calc may require you to shift-click on the cell).
	
truepeople - contains a hyperlink for searching www.truepeoplesearch.com
	for this address; If you are using Excel, clicking on this cell will
	transfer you into your web browser to the 411.com website, with the
	address pre-loaded for you. (Some other spreadsheet packages like
	OpenOffice/Calc may require you to shift-click on the cell).
	
411 - contains a hyperlink for searching www.411.com for this address; If
	you are using Excel, clicking on this cell will transfer you into your
	web browser to the 411.com website, with the address pre-loaded for
	you. (Some other spreadsheet packages like OpenOffice/Calc may require
	you to shift-click on the cell).
	
DNC - if '1' this address/unit is in our Do Not Call list; As an added
	protection, the system places "DO NOT CALL" in the Name column.

FL - if '1', this is a foreign-language do-not-call


Hyperlinks.

In general a hyperlink is a special-case text that is a link to an external
source of information. Probably most are familiar with them in the JW
publications as blue-highlighted fields that may contain Bible verse links
or publication links (e.g. Is 55:8, w 02 23-24.). In the super territories
they are links that your browser can follow directly to web site information.

Hyperlinks to the 3 search engines, fastpeoplesearch, truepeoplesearch,
and 411 allow the user to jump directly into the desired search engine
without the tedium of typing in the address in the search engine search
dialog box. One "click" gets you directly there.

Most spreadsheet applications like Excel follow the convention of showing
hyperlinks as highlighted blue. In the Terrxxx_Search sheets the hyperlinks
are not highlighted, since they are "layered" under the text "Click here to
search".

Whatever column the "Click here to search" appears in, the hyperlink will
link out to your browser for the search engine listed in the column header
(e.g. fastpeople will link to fastpeoplesearch.com). The underlying
hyperlink supplies the search engine with a preloaded address field that
will send it directly to that information.

Many search engines are now protected with a layer of security that
precludes "robot" software from overloading the search engine. The first
time you visit one of these sites in your browser session, you may be required
to go through a verification to prove to the site that you are "human".
This usually involves checking a checkbox "I am human" and/or identifying
a series of pictures that follow a certain pattern (e.g. boats). Once you
have "passed", as long as your browser session remains active, you will
not have to repeat the "not-a-robot" verification for a given search engine.

Once through the "not-a-robot" verification you will be connected directly
to the address information for the site. By switching back and forth
between your browser window and your spreadsheet window, you can easily
compare information. The browser tab for the search engine/address will
remain active until you close it. Keep in mind that if you continue
clicking hyperlinks in the Super Territory, a new browser tab will be
opened every time you click a link. You may wish to do some periodic
"housekeeping" by closing browser tabs you are finished with.

THIS IS THE COOL STUFF: With a browser tab that is the web page for the
search information for a given address, all Windows operations may be
performed on the fields in the browser web page. This means that you
can "copy" and "paste" information from the web page back into your
Terrxxx_Search sheet. You can cut and paste additional phone numbers,
names, or any other information into your sheet for future reference.
By saving the Terrxxx_SuperTerr.xlsx file, your additions will be there
whenever you wish to use them in the future.


Macro Library.
--------------
WARNING: THIS SECTION IS FOR TECH-HEADS. (If you are not a "tech-head"
this is your introduction to the TechHead foreign language).

A macro library has been created for spreadsheet power-users that will
be tasked with taking the Release territories and massaging them into
finalized publisher territories. The library name is "Release" and is
an Apache OpenOffice Calc library that can be imported into the installed
Calc on any system.

The macro library is system-independent. It will run on either a Windows
or GNU/Linux system that has Apache Open Office and Java Runtime Environment
(JRE) installed. Along with the macro library is a custom keyboard configuration
file that maps the user keyboard to the Release macro library. This provides
power-users with shortcut keys to manage the territory spreadsheets.

When included in a release, the macro library will be contained in its own
tarball. This will require separate extraction on the target system, followed
by integration into the installed version of Calc. This is not a process
for the faint of heart.

The macro library is maintained in the $folderbase/TerrRelease and the 
$folderbase/Documents/GitHub/TerrRelease folders. To 'git' the GitHub/TerrRelease
folder is 'origin', the ~Bill/TerrRelease folder is 'devel'.

Detailed documentation on the macro library is contained in a separate
document, README_MACRO-LIBRARY.
